readme.md, before:

# Awesome Transgender [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge-flat2.svg)](https://awesome.re) ![Transgender Flag](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/b0/Transgender_Pride_flag.svg)

> Someone whose gender identity differs from their assigned birth sex.

## Contents

- [Awesome Transgender](#awesome-transgender)
  - [Contents](#contents)
  - [General Websites](#general-websites)
  - [Communities](#communities)
    - [Reddit](#reddit)
    - [Lemmy](#lemmy)
    - [MtF (Male to Female)](#mtf-male-to-female)
    - [FtM (Female to Male)](#ftm-female-to-male)
  - [Voice Training](#voice-training)
  - [Medical and Health](#medical-and-health)
    - [DIY HRT](#diy-hrt)
    - [Surgery Resources](#surgery-resources)
    - [Scientific Research](#scientific-research)
  - [Organizations](#organizations)
    - [Africa](#africa)
    - [Asia](#asia)
      - [China](#china)
      - [India](#india)
    - [Australia & New Zealand](#australia-and-new-zealand)
    - [Europe](#europe)
      - [Spain](#spain)
      - [France](#france)
      - [Netherlands](#netherlands)
      - [United Kingdom & Ireland](#united-kingdom-and-ireland)
    - [Latin America](#latin-america)
    - [U.S.A (United States of America) & Canada](#usa-united-states-of-america-and-canada)
      - [U.S.A (United States of America)](#usa-united-states-of-america)
      - [Canada](#canada)
  - [Clothing](#clothing)
    - [Femme Shapewear](#femme-shapewear)
    - [Binders](#binders)
  - [Financial Assistance](#financial-assistance)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)

## General Websites

This section includes general websites for transgender individuals. If the language of the website is not in English, it'll be displayed.

- [That's Gender Dysphoria, FYI](https://genderdysphoria.fyi/en/) - An informative guide on recognizing and understanding gender dysphoria.
- [LGBTQ Nation](https://www.lgbtqnation.com) - News and resources centered on LGBTQ+ issues.
- [Transgender Map](https://www.transgendermap.com) - Detailed, map-based resource focused on transgender issues and experiences.
- [Trans in Academia!](https://transacademic.org) - Support and information for transgender individuals in academic environments.
- [Transgender University Guidance](https://uniguide.transacademic.org) - Guidance on navigating university as a transgender student.
- [QUEERING THE MAP](https://www.queeringthemap.com/) - Map-based tool that records LGBTQ+ experiences worldwide.
- [Trans Chat](https://trans.chat/) - Chat platform for trans individuals.
- [Easing Dysphoria!](https://antidysphoria.carrd.co/) - Resources for addressing and alleviating dysphoria.
- [For Trans People](https://actionfortranshealth.org.uk/resources/for-trans-people/) - Collection of resources to support trans health and rights.
- [Trans Media Watch - Timeline](https://transmediawatch.org/a-trans-timeline) - A timeline detailing significant media events related to transgender issues.
- [QueerMap](https://map.qiekub.org/) - Map helping LGBTQ+ people find resources and safe spaces.
- [The Trevor Project](https://www.thetrevorproject.org/) - Crisis intervention and suicide prevention services for LGBTQ+ youth.
- [Trans Lifeline](https://translifeline.org/) - Trans peer support hotline and crisis intervention services run by and for trans people.
- [Point of Pride](https://www.pointofpride.org/) - Organization providing financial aid and direct support for trans health and wellness care.

## Communities

This section is dedicated to communities for transgender individuals.

### Reddit

- [r/TransWiki](https://www.reddit.com/r/TransWiki) - Collaborative resource for transgender-related information.
- [r/Transgender_Surgeries](https://www.reddit.com/r/Transgender_Surgeries) - Focused on discussions and resources around transgender surgeries.
- [r/TransDIY](https://reddit.com/r/TransDIY) - Community for DIY hormone therapy and related resources.

### Lemmy

- [!transgender@lemmy.ml](https://lemmy.ml/c/transgender) - Transgender community on Lemmy.
- [!trans@lemmy.blahaj.zone](https://lemmy.blahaj.zone/c/trans) - Lemmy community for trans individuals and discussions.

### MtF (Male to Female)

- [r/mtf](https://reddit.com/r/mtf) - A community dedicated to male-to-female transgender topics.
- [SRS (MtF)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sex_reassignment_surgery_%28male-to-female%29) - Information on sex reassignment surgery for MtF individuals.
- [Feminizing hormone therapy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feminizing_hormone_therapy) - Explanation and guidelines on hormone therapy for MtF transitions.
- [r/AskMtFHRT](https://reddit.com/r/AskMtFHRT) - Focused on MtF hormone replacement therapy questions.
- [!mtf@lemmy.blahaj.zone](https://lemmy.blahaj.zone/c/mtf) - MtF community on Lemmy.

### FtM (Female to Male)

- [r/ftm](https://reddit.com/r/ftm) - Community for female-to-male transgender individuals.
- [TransGuys](https://transguys.com) - Comprehensive FtM resource covering various topics.
- [Top Surgery Guide](https://www.topsurgery.net) - Resource for those considering top surgery.
- [Hudson's FtM Resource Guide](http://www.ftmguide.org) - Classic guide for FtM topics.
- [SRS (FtM)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sex_reassignment_surgery_%28female-to-male%29) - Information on FtM-specific surgeries.
- [Masculinizing hormone therapy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Masculinizing_hormone_therapy) - Guide to hormone therapy for FtM individuals.
- [!ftm@lemmy.blahaj.zone](https://lemmy.blahaj.zone/c/ftm) - Lemmy community focused on FtM topics.
- [Dem Bois Inc.](https://www.dembois.org/) - Non-profit organization providing financial assistance for FTM/trans-masculine people of color seeking gender-affirming surgery.

## Voice Training

- [TransVoiceLessons](https://www.youtube.com/@TransVoiceLessons) - YouTube channel offering voice training for trans individuals.
- [Voice Tools by Azalea](https://voice.hydev.org) - Voice training tool and exercises.
- [Acoustic Gender](https://acousticgender.space/) - Resource for understanding and achieving vocal gender congruence.

## Medical and Health

This section includes resources related to medical care, health, and wellness for transgender individuals.

### DIY HRT

This section shows awesome resources for helping individuals with DIY HRT.

- [DIY HRT Directory](https://diyhrt.wiki/) - Directory of resources on DIY hormone replacement therapy.
  - [Transfem Guide](https://diyhrt.wiki/transfem) - Guide for transfeminine individuals.
  - [Transmasc](https://diyhrt.wiki/transmasc) - Guide for transmasculine individuals.
- [DIY transgender hormone therapy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DIY_transgender_hormone_therapy) - Overview of DIY hormone therapy.
- [HRTCafe.net](https://hrtcafe.net) - Community for those exploring DIY HRT.
- [hrt.coffee](https://hrt.coffee) - DIY HRT information and discussion platform.
- [MtFHRT@groups.io](https://groups.io/g/MTFHRT) - Mailing list for MtF HRT discussions.
- [Transfeminine Science](https://transfemscience.org) - Scientific resource on transfeminine hormone therapy.
- [DIY HRT Harm Reduction Guide](https://www.scribd.com/document/452956917/DIY-HRT-Harm-Reduction-guide) - Harm reduction guide for DIY hormone replacement therapy.

### Surgery Resources

- [Gender Confirmation Center](https://www.genderconfirmation.com/blog/gender-affirming-surgery/) - Information and resources about gender-affirming surgery.
- [Mount Sinai Center for Transgender Medicine and Surgery](https://www.mountsinai.org/locations/center-transgender-medicine-surgery/care/surgery) - Comprehensive surgical care information and resources.

### Scientific Research

- [Are the Brains of Transgender People Different from Those of Cisgender People?](https://www.the-scientist.com/features/are-the-brains-of-transgender-people-different-from-those-of-cisgender-people-30027) (2018) - Research on neurological differences.
- [Androgen Receptor Repeat Length Polymorphism Associated with Male-to-Female Transsexualism](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsych.2008.08.033) (2008) - Study on genetic factors in MtF individuals.
- [Vaginoplasty Modifications to Improve Vulvar Aesthetics](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ucl.2019.07.008) (2019) - Surgical advancements for vulvar aesthetics.
- [Male-to-female vaginoplasty: Preecha's surgical technique](https://doi.org/10.3109/2000656X.2014.967253) (2014) - Preecha's approach to MtF vaginoplasty.
- WPATH: [Standards of Care for the Health of Transgender and Gender Diverse People](https://www.wpath.org/publications/soc), Version 8 (2022) \[[PDF](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/26895269.2022.2100644)] - Global standards for transgender healthcare.

## Organizations

Here is a list of LGBTQ+ Organizations aimed at helping transgender individuals.

- [The World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH)](https://www.wpath.org) - Sets global standards for transgender health.
- [Massachusetts Transgender Political Coalition (MTPC)](https://www.masstpc.org) - Advocacy group for transgender rights in Massachusetts.
- [Transgender Teen Survival Guide](https://transgenderteensurvivalguide.com) - Guide and support for transgender teens.
- [TGEU (Transgender Europe)](https://tgeu.org/about-transgender-europe/) - Trans-led nonprofit advocating for trans rights and wellbeing in Europe and Central Asia.
- [Genderbands](https://www.genderbands.org/grants) - Organization providing transition grants for trans and non-binary individuals.

### Africa

- [Africa Transgender Network (ATN)](https://africatransgendernetwork.org/) - Regional network advocating for trans and gender diverse rights across Africa.
- [Be True 2 Me](https://www.betrue2me.org/) - Organization supporting transgender rights and advocacy in Africa.
- [Bisi Alimi Foundation](https://bisialimifoundation.org/) - Organization advocating for the rights and dignity of LGBT people in Nigeria.
- [GALCK](https://galck.org/) - Gay and Lesbian Coalition of Kenya advocating for LGBT rights in Kenya.
- [GALZ](https://galz.org/) - Organization protecting and promoting the rights of LGBTI people in Zimbabwe.

### Asia

- [Asia Pacific Transgender Network (APTN)](https://www.weareaptn.org/) - Regional network advocating for trans and gender diverse rights across Asia and the Pacific.
- [Blue Diamond Society](https://bds.org.np/) - Organization advocating for the rights of sexual and gender minorities in Nepal.
- [Equal Ground](https://www.equal-ground.org/) - Organization advocating for LGBT rights and equality in Asia.

#### China

- [Chinese Gender diversity digital library](https://transchinese.org) - A digital collection of Chinese transgender resources.

#### India

- [Sahodari Foundation](https://sahodari.org/) - Organization working for transgender rights and empowerment in India.

### Australia and New Zealand

- [Transgender Victoria (TGV)](https://www.tgv.org.au/) - Victorian transgender advocacy and support organization.
- [Gender Minorities Aotearoa](https://genderminorities.com/) - Organization supporting transgender and gender diverse people in New Zealand.

### Europe

#### Spain

- [FELGTBI](https://felgtbi.org/) - Spanish Federation of Lesbians, Gays, Trans, Bisexuals and Intersexuals.

#### France

- [Wiki Trans](https://wikitrans.co) (French) - Wiki-style resource on transgender topics in French.

#### Netherlands

- [COC](https://coc.nl/engels) - LGBTQ+ organization in the Netherlands.
- [Gender Dysforie UMCG](https://www.umcg.nl/-/genderdysforie) (Dutch) - Another gender dysphoria treatment center in the Netherlands.
- [Gender Dysforie VUMC](https://www.vumc.nl/zorg/expertisecentra-en-specialismen/kennis-en-zorgcentrum-genderdysforie.htm) (Dutch) - Dutch medical center for gender dysphoria.
- [Radboudumc - Transgender Healthcare](https://www.radboudumc.nl/expertisecentra/geslacht-en-gender/transgenderzorg) - Dutch medical center offering specialized transgender healthcare, including medical guidance and support throughout the transition process.
- [T-Nederland](https://t-nederland.nl/) (Dutch) - Dutch transgender support organization.
- [The Hangout 101](http://thehang-out010.weebly.com/) - Dutch community space for LGBTQ+ youth.
- [Trans in Eigen Hand](https://transineigenhand.nl/) - Dutch organization providing resources and guidance for general practitioners to support transgender patients in accessing hormone therapy, along with up-to-date information on waitlists for gender-affirming care in the Netherlands.
- [Transgender Netwerk](https://www.transgendernetwerk.nl/) (Dutch) - Dutch network for transgender rights.
- [Transvisie](https://transvisie.nl/information/) - Dutch organization supporting transgender health.

#### United Kingdom and Ireland

- [Trans Legal Clinic](https://www.translegalclinic.com/) - Grassroots, trans-led legal clinic providing free legal support to trans people across the UK.
- [FiveforFive](https://www.fiveforfive.co.uk/) - Collective giving platform supporting transfem causes in the UK.

### Latin America

- [TransLatinX](https://translatinx.org/) - Regional network and advocacy group for trans and gender diverse rights in Latin America.
- [REDLACTRANS](https://redlactrans.org.ar/) - Latin American and Caribbean Network of Trans People.
- [Associação Nacional de Travestis e Transexuais (ANTRA)](https://antrabrasil.org/) - Brazilian National Association of Travestis and Transsexuals.
- [Fundación Transitar](https://fundaciontransitar.org/) - Argentine organization supporting trans rights and healthcare access.
- [Organización de Transexuales por la Dignidad de la Diversidad (OTD)](https://otdchile.org/) - Chilean organization advocating for trans rights and dignity.
- [Colectivo Trans del Uruguay (CTU)](https://www.facebook.com/colectivotransdeluruguay/) - Uruguayan trans collective working for rights and visibility.
- [Transgender Network Netherlands - Latin America Resources](https://www.transgendernetwerk.nl/international/latin-america/) - Resources and information about trans rights in Latin America.
- [Infancias Trans](https://infanciastrans.org/) - Organization supporting transgender children and their families in Latin America.
- [Mune Casitresias](https://www.munecastiresias.org/) - Organization supporting transgender rights and advocacy in Latin America.

### U.S.A (United States of America) and Canada

#### U.S.A (United States of America)

- [American Psychological Association (APA)](https://www.apa.org/topics/lgbtq) - APA's resources on LGBTQ+ topics.
- [Black Trans Advocacy Coalition](https://blacktrans.org/) - Advocacy and support organization for Black transgender individuals.
- [Gender Analysis](https://genderanalysis.net) - Focuses on transgender issues from a critical perspective.
- [Gender Spectrum](http://www.genderspectrum.org) - Provides support and education around gender diversity.
- [National Center for Transgender Equality](https://transequality.org) - Advocacy group for transgender equality in the U.S.
- [Sylvia Rivera Law Project](https://srlp.org) - Law project supporting low-income transgender people.
- [Transgender Law Center](https://transgenderlawcenter.org) - Legal support and advocacy for transgender rights.
- [TransTech Social](https://transtechsocial.org/) - Organization supporting transgender individuals in technology and social impact.

#### Canada

- [Egale Canada](https://egale.ca/) - National organization advancing LGBTQI2S human rights through research, education and community engagement.
- [The 519](https://www.the519.org/programs/housing-services/) - Toronto-based organization providing housing services and support for LGBTQ+ communities.

## Clothing

This section shows awesome resources for finding trans-specific clothing.

- [Rubyshines](https://rubyshines.com) - Clothing designed for transgender individuals.
- [Both& Apparel](https://www.bothandapparel.com/) - Transmasc clothing brand with community-driven fit and sizing system.
- [En Femme Style](https://enfemmestyle.com/) - Clothing and accessories for transgender women.
- [Paxsies](https://paxsies.com/) - Gender-affirming clothing and accessories.

### Femme Shapewear

- [Point of Pride - Free Femme Shapewear](https://www.pointofpride.org/free-femme-shapewear) - Free femme shapewear and gaffs for trans individuals who cannot afford or safely obtain them.

### Binders

- [Underworks](https://www.underworks.com/) - Binders for safe chest compression.
- [Urbody](https://urbody.co/) - Functional fashion including compression tops and gender-affirming clothing.
- [RodeoH](https://rodeoh.com/) - FTM gear including compression tops and packer underwear.
- [Origami Customs](https://origamicustoms.com/collections/binders) - Custom binders and gender-affirming clothing.
- [Point of Pride - Free Chest Binders](https://www.pointofpride.org/free-chest-binders) - Free chest binders for trans individuals who cannot afford or safely obtain them.

## Financial Assistance

This section includes resources for financial support and assistance for transgender individuals.

- [PFund Foundation - TRANSCEND Fund](https://www.pfundfoundation.org/transcend) - Grant funding for Trans+ rights advocacy and organizations supporting transgender and gender non-conforming communities in the Midwest.
- [Arianna's Center - Stipend Requests](https://ariannas-center.org/causes/stipend-request/) - Emergency financial assistance for medical expenses, legal representation, and other urgent needs for transgender individuals.
- [For The Gworls](https://www.forthegworls.com/home) - Collective providing financial assistance for rent, gender-affirming surgeries, medical co-pays, and travel assistance for Black trans individuals.
- [Point of Pride - Annual Transgender Surgery Fund](https://www.pointofpride.org/annual-transgender-surgery-fund) - Scholarship-like program providing direct financial assistance to trans folks who cannot afford gender-affirming surgery.
- [Point of Pride - HRT Access Fund](https://www.pointofpride.org/hrt-access-fund) - Financial assistance for hormone replacement therapy costs.
- [Point of Pride - Electrolysis Support Fund](https://www.pointofpride.org/electrolysis-support-fund) - Financial assistance for electrolysis hair removal treatments.

## Contributing

Contributions welcome! Read the [contribution guidelines](contributing.md) first.

Commit message:

Add Grupo Trans Masculinos de Cuba and Humsafar Trust, alphabetize sections, fix MD039 linting error

readme.md, after:

# Awesome Transgender [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge-flat2.svg)](https://awesome.re) ![Transgender Flag](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/b0/Transgender_Pride_flag.svg)

> Someone whose gender identity differs from their assigned birth sex.

## Contents

- [Awesome Transgender  ](#awesome-transgender--)
  - [Contents](#contents)
  - [General Websites](#general-websites)
  - [Communities](#communities)
    - [Reddit](#reddit)
    - [Lemmy](#lemmy)
    - [MtF (Male to Female)](#mtf-male-to-female)
    - [FtM (Female to Male)](#ftm-female-to-male)
  - [Voice Training](#voice-training)
  - [Medical and Health](#medical-and-health)
    - [DIY HRT](#diy-hrt)
    - [Surgery Resources](#surgery-resources)
    - [Scientific Research](#scientific-research)
  - [Organizations](#organizations)
    - [Middle East and Africa](#middle-east-and-africa)
      - [Africa](#africa)
    - [Asia](#asia)
      - [China](#china)
      - [India](#india)
    - [Australia and New Zealand](#australia-and-new-zealand)
    - [Europe](#europe)
      - [Spain](#spain)
      - [France](#france)
      - [Netherlands](#netherlands)
      - [United Kingdom and Ireland](#united-kingdom-and-ireland)
    - [Latin America](#latin-america)
    - [U.S.A (United States of America) and Canada](#usa-united-states-of-america-and-canada)
      - [U.S.A (United States of America)](#usa-united-states-of-america)
      - [Canada](#canada)
  - [Clothing](#clothing)
    - [Femme Shapewear](#femme-shapewear)
    - [Binders](#binders)
  - [Financial Assistance](#financial-assistance)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)

## General Websites

This section includes general websites for transgender individuals. If the language of the website is not in English, it'll be displayed.

- [That's Gender Dysphoria, FYI](https://genderdysphoria.fyi/en/) - An informative guide on recognizing and understanding gender dysphoria.
- [LGBTQ Nation](https://www.lgbtqnation.com) - News and resources centered on LGBTQ+ issues.
- [Transgender Map](https://www.transgendermap.com) - Detailed, map-based resource focused on transgender issues and experiences.
- [Trans in Academia!](https://transacademic.org) - Support and information for transgender individuals in academic environments.
- [Transgender University Guidance](https://uniguide.transacademic.org) - Guidance on navigating university as a transgender student.
- [QUEERING THE MAP](https://www.queeringthemap.com/) - Map-based tool that records LGBTQ+ experiences worldwide.
- [Trans Chat](https://trans.chat/) - Chat platform for trans individuals.
- [Easing Dysphoria!](https://antidysphoria.carrd.co/) - Resources for addressing and alleviating dysphoria.
- [For Trans People](https://actionfortranshealth.org.uk/resources/for-trans-people/) - Collection of resources to support trans health and rights.
- [Trans Media Watch - Timeline](https://transmediawatch.org/a-trans-timeline) - A timeline detailing significant media events related to transgender issues.
- [QueerMap](https://map.qiekub.org/) - Map helping LGBTQ+ people find resources and safe spaces.
- [The Trevor Project](https://www.thetrevorproject.org/) - Crisis intervention and suicide prevention services for LGBTQ+ youth.
- [Trans Lifeline](https://translifeline.org/) - Trans peer support hotline and crisis intervention services run by and for trans people.
- [Point of Pride](https://www.pointofpride.org/) - Organization providing financial aid and direct support for trans health and wellness care.

## Communities

This section is dedicated to communities for transgender individuals.

### Reddit

- [r/TransWiki](https://www.reddit.com/r/TransWiki) - Collaborative resource for transgender-related information.
- [r/Transgender_Surgeries](https://www.reddit.com/r/Transgender_Surgeries) - Focused on discussions and resources around transgender surgeries.
- [r/TransDIY](https://reddit.com/r/TransDIY) - Community for DIY hormone therapy and related resources.

### Lemmy

- [!transgender@lemmy.ml](https://lemmy.ml/c/transgender) - Transgender community on Lemmy.
- [!trans@lemmy.blahaj.zone](https://lemmy.blahaj.zone/c/trans) - Lemmy community for trans individuals and discussions.

### MtF (Male to Female)

- [r/mtf](https://reddit.com/r/mtf) - A community dedicated to male-to-female transgender topics.
- [SRS (MtF)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sex_reassignment_surgery_%28male-to-female%29) - Information on sex reassignment surgery for MtF individuals.
- [Feminizing hormone therapy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feminizing_hormone_therapy) - Explanation and guidelines on hormone therapy for MtF transitions.
- [r/AskMtFHRT](https://reddit.com/r/AskMtFHRT) - Focused on MtF hormone replacement therapy questions.
- [!mtf@lemmy.blahaj.zone](https://lemmy.blahaj.zone/c/mtf) - MtF community on Lemmy.

### FtM (Female to Male)

- [r/ftm](https://reddit.com/r/ftm) - Community for female-to-male transgender individuals.
- [TransGuys](https://transguys.com) - Comprehensive FtM resource covering various topics.
- [Top Surgery Guide](https://www.topsurgery.net) - Resource for those considering top surgery.
- [Hudson's FtM Resource Guide](http://www.ftmguide.org) - Classic guide for FtM topics.
- [SRS (FtM)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sex_reassignment_surgery_%28female-to-male%29) - Information on FtM-specific surgeries.
- [Masculinizing hormone therapy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Masculinizing_hormone_therapy) - Guide to hormone therapy for FtM individuals.
- [!ftm@lemmy.blahaj.zone](https://lemmy.blahaj.zone/c/ftm) - Lemmy community focused on FtM topics.
- [Dem Bois Inc.](https://www.dembois.org/) - Non-profit organization providing financial assistance for FTM/trans-masculine people of color seeking gender-affirming surgery.

## Voice Training

- [TransVoiceLessons](https://www.youtube.com/@TransVoiceLessons) - YouTube channel offering voice training for trans individuals.
- [Voice Tools by Azalea](https://voice.hydev.org) - Voice training tool and exercises.
- [Acoustic Gender](https://acousticgender.space/) - Resource for understanding and achieving vocal gender congruence.

## Medical and Health

This section includes resources related to medical care, health, and wellness for transgender individuals.

### DIY HRT

This section shows awesome resources for helping individuals with DIY HRT.

- [DIY HRT Directory](https://diyhrt.wiki/) - Directory of resources on DIY hormone replacement therapy.
  - [Transfem Guide](https://diyhrt.wiki/transfem) - Guide for transfeminine individuals.
  - [Transmasc](https://diyhrt.wiki/transmasc) - Guide for transmasculine individuals.
- [DIY transgender hormone therapy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DIY_transgender_hormone_therapy) - Overview of DIY hormone therapy.
- [HRTCafe.net](https://hrtcafe.net) - Community for those exploring DIY HRT.
- [hrt.coffee](https://hrt.coffee) - DIY HRT information and discussion platform.
- [MtFHRT@groups.io](https://groups.io/g/MTFHRT) - Mailing list for MtF HRT discussions.
- [Transfeminine Science](https://transfemscience.org) - Scientific resource on transfeminine hormone therapy.
- [DIY HRT Harm Reduction Guide](https://www.scribd.com/document/452956917/DIY-HRT-Harm-Reduction-guide) - Harm reduction guide for DIY hormone replacement therapy.

### Surgery Resources

- [Gender Confirmation Center](https://www.genderconfirmation.com/blog/gender-affirming-surgery/) - Information and resources about gender-affirming surgery.
- [Mount Sinai Center for Transgender Medicine and Surgery](https://www.mountsinai.org/locations/center-transgender-medicine-surgery/care/surgery) - Comprehensive surgical care information and resources.

### Scientific Research

- [Are the Brains of Transgender People Different from Those of Cisgender People?](https://www.the-scientist.com/features/are-the-brains-of-transgender-people-different-from-those-of-cisgender-people-30027) (2018) - Research on neurological differences.
- [Androgen Receptor Repeat Length Polymorphism Associated with Male-to-Female Transsexualism](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsych.2008.08.033) (2008) - Study on genetic factors in MtF individuals.
- [Vaginoplasty Modifications to Improve Vulvar Aesthetics](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ucl.2019.07.008) (2019) - Surgical advancements for vulvar aesthetics.
- [Male-to-female vaginoplasty: Preecha's surgical technique](https://doi.org/10.3109/2000656X.2014.967253) (2014) - Preecha's approach to MtF vaginoplasty.
- WPATH: [Standards of Care for the Health of Transgender and Gender Diverse People](https://www.wpath.org/publications/soc), Version 8 (2022) \[[PDF](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/26895269.2022.2100644)] - Global standards for transgender healthcare.

## Organizations

Here is a list of LGBTQ+ Organizations aimed at helping transgender individuals.

- [The World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH)](https://www.wpath.org) - Sets global standards for transgender health.
- [Massachusetts Transgender Political Coalition (MTPC)](https://www.masstpc.org) - Advocacy group for transgender rights in Massachusetts.
- [Transgender Teen Survival Guide](https://transgenderteensurvivalguide.com) - Guide and support for transgender teens.
- [TGEU (Transgender Europe)](https://tgeu.org/about-transgender-europe/) - Trans-led nonprofit advocating for trans rights and wellbeing in Europe and Central Asia.
- [Genderbands](https://www.genderbands.org/grants) - Organization providing transition grants for trans and non-binary individuals.

### Middle East and Africa

- [Helem](https://www.helem.net/) - Lebanese organization advocating for LGBTQ+ rights and providing support services in Lebanon and the Middle East.

#### Africa

- [Africa Transgender Network (ATN)](https://africatransgendernetwork.org/) - Regional network advocating for trans and gender diverse rights across Africa.
- [Be True 2 Me](https://www.betrue2me.org/) - Organization supporting transgender rights and advocacy in Africa.
- [Bisi Alimi Foundation](https://bisialimifoundation.org/) - Organization advocating for the rights and dignity of LGBT people in Nigeria.
- [GALCK](https://galck.org/) - Gay and Lesbian Coalition of Kenya advocating for LGBT rights in Kenya.
- [GALZ](https://galz.org/) - Organization protecting and promoting the rights of LGBTI people in Zimbabwe.

### Asia

- [Asia Pacific Transgender Network (APTN)](https://www.weareaptn.org/) - Regional network advocating for trans and gender diverse rights across Asia and the Pacific.
- [Blue Diamond Society](https://bds.org.np/) - Organization advocating for the rights of sexual and gender minorities in Nepal.
- [Equal Ground](https://www.equal-ground.org/) - Organization advocating for LGBT rights and equality in Asia.

#### China

- [Chinese Gender diversity digital library](https://transchinese.org) - A digital collection of Chinese transgender resources.

#### India

- [Humsafar Trust](https://humsafar.org/) - The oldest community-based organization working on queer health and well-being in India since 1994, providing HIV testing, treatment, counseling, and various LGBTQ+ support initiatives.
- [Sahodari Foundation](https://sahodari.org/) - Organization working for transgender rights and empowerment in India.

### Australia and New Zealand

- [Transgender Victoria (TGV)](https://www.tgv.org.au/) - Victorian transgender advocacy and support organization.
- [Gender Minorities Aotearoa](https://genderminorities.com/) - Organization supporting transgender and gender diverse people in New Zealand.

### Europe

#### Spain

- [FELGTBI](https://felgtbi.org/) - Spanish Federation of Lesbians, Gays, Trans, Bisexuals and Intersexuals.

#### France

- [Wiki Trans](https://wikitrans.co) (French) - Wiki-style resource on transgender topics in French.

#### Netherlands

- [COC](https://coc.nl/engels) - LGBTQ+ organization in the Netherlands.
- [Gender Dysforie UMCG](https://www.umcg.nl/-/genderdysforie) (Dutch) - Another gender dysphoria treatment center in the Netherlands.
- [Gender Dysforie VUMC](https://www.vumc.nl/zorg/expertisecentra-en-specialismen/kennis-en-zorgcentrum-genderdysforie.htm) (Dutch) - Dutch medical center for gender dysphoria.
- [Radboudumc - Transgender Healthcare](https://www.radboudumc.nl/expertisecentra/geslacht-en-gender/transgenderzorg) - Dutch medical center offering specialized transgender healthcare, including medical guidance and support throughout the transition process.
- [T-Nederland](https://t-nederland.nl/) (Dutch) - Dutch transgender support organization.
- [The Hangout 101](http://thehang-out010.weebly.com/) - Dutch community space for LGBTQ+ youth.
- [Trans in Eigen Hand](https://transineigenhand.nl/) - Dutch organization providing resources and guidance for general practitioners to support transgender patients in accessing hormone therapy, along with up-to-date information on waitlists for gender-affirming care in the Netherlands.
- [Transgender Netwerk](https://www.transgendernetwerk.nl/) (Dutch) - Dutch network for transgender rights.
- [Transvisie](https://transvisie.nl/information/) - Dutch organization supporting transgender health.

#### United Kingdom and Ireland

- [Trans Legal Clinic](https://www.translegalclinic.com/) - Grassroots, trans-led legal clinic providing free legal support to trans people across the UK.
- [FiveforFive](https://www.fiveforfive.co.uk/) - Collective giving platform supporting transfem causes in the UK.

### Latin America

- [TransLatinX](https://translatinx.org/) - Regional network and advocacy group for trans and gender diverse rights in Latin America.
- [REDLACTRANS](https://redlactrans.org.ar/) - Latin American and Caribbean Network of Trans People.
- [Associação Nacional de Travestis e Transexuais (ANTRA)](https://antrabrasil.org/) - Brazilian National Association of Travestis and Transsexuals.
- [Fundación Transitar](https://fundaciontransitar.org/) - Argentine organization supporting trans rights and healthcare access.
- [Organización de Transexuales por la Dignidad de la Diversidad (OTD)](https://otdchile.org/) - Chilean organization advocating for trans rights and dignity.
- [Colectivo Trans del Uruguay (CTU)](https://www.facebook.com/colectivotransdeluruguay/) - Uruguayan trans collective working for rights and visibility.
- [Transgender Network Netherlands - Latin America Resources](https://www.transgendernetwerk.nl/international/latin-america/) - Resources and information about trans rights in Latin America.
- [Infancias Trans](https://infanciastrans.org/) - Organization supporting transgender children and their families in Latin America.
- [Mune Casitresias](https://www.munecastiresias.org/) - Organization supporting transgender rights and advocacy in Latin America.

### U.S.A (United States of America) and Canada

#### U.S.A (United States of America)

- [American Psychological Association (APA)](https://www.apa.org/topics/lgbtq) - APA's resources on LGBTQ+ topics.
- [Black Trans Advocacy Coalition](https://blacktrans.org/) - Advocacy and support organization for Black transgender individuals.
- [Gender Analysis](https://genderanalysis.net) - Focuses on transgender issues from a critical perspective.
- [Gender Spectrum](http://www.genderspectrum.org) - Provides support and education around gender diversity.
- [National Center for Transgender Equality](https://transequality.org) - Advocacy group for transgender equality in the U.S.
- [Sylvia Rivera Law Project](https://srlp.org) - Law project supporting low-income transgender people.
- [Transgender Law Center](https://transgenderlawcenter.org) - Legal support and advocacy for transgender rights.
- [TransTech Social](https://transtechsocial.org/) - Organization supporting transgender individuals in technology and social impact.

#### Canada

- [Egale Canada](https://egale.ca/) - National organization advancing LGBTQI2S human rights through research, education and community engagement.
- [The 519](https://www.the519.org/programs/housing-services/) - Toronto-based organization providing housing services and support for LGBTQ+ communities.

## Clothing

This section shows awesome resources for finding trans-specific clothing.

- [Rubyshines](https://rubyshines.com) - Clothing designed for transgender individuals.
- [Both& Apparel](https://www.bothandapparel.com/) - Transmasc clothing brand with community-driven fit and sizing system.
- [En Femme Style](https://enfemmestyle.com/) - Clothing and accessories for transgender women.
- [Paxsies](https://paxsies.com/) - Gender-affirming clothing and accessories.

### Femme Shapewear

- [Point of Pride - Free Femme Shapewear](https://www.pointofpride.org/free-femme-shapewear) - Free femme shapewear and gaffs for trans individuals who cannot afford or safely obtain them.

### Binders

- [Underworks](https://www.underworks.com/) - Binders for safe chest compression.
- [Urbody](https://urbody.co/) - Functional fashion including compression tops and gender-affirming clothing.
- [RodeoH](https://rodeoh.com/) - FTM gear including compression tops and packer underwear.
- [Origami Customs](https://origamicustoms.com/collections/binders) - Custom binders and gender-affirming clothing.
- [Point of Pride - Free Chest Binders](https://www.pointofpride.org/free-chest-binders) - Free chest binders for trans individuals who cannot afford or safely obtain them.

## Financial Assistance

This section includes resources for financial support and assistance for transgender individuals.

- [PFund Foundation - TRANSCEND Fund](https://www.pfundfoundation.org/transcend) - Grant funding for Trans+ rights advocacy and organizations supporting transgender and gender non-conforming communities in the Midwest.
- [Arianna's Center - Stipend Requests](https://ariannas-center.org/causes/stipend-request/) - Emergency financial assistance for medical expenses, legal representation, and other urgent needs for transgender individuals.
- [For The Gworls](https://www.forthegworls.com/home) - Collective providing financial assistance for rent, gender-affirming surgeries, medical co-pays, and travel assistance for Black trans individuals.
- [Point of Pride - Annual Transgender Surgery Fund](https://www.pointofpride.org/annual-transgender-surgery-fund) - Scholarship-like program providing direct financial assistance to trans folks who cannot afford gender-affirming surgery.
- [Point of Pride - HRT Access Fund](https://www.pointofpride.org/hrt-access-fund) - Financial assistance for hormone replacement therapy costs.
- [Point of Pride - Electrolysis Support Fund](https://www.pointofpride.org/electrolysis-support-fund) - Financial assistance for electrolysis hair removal treatments.

## Contributing

Contributions welcome! Read the [contribution guidelines](contributing.md) first.
